README.md, before:


[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/gallickgunner/ImGui-Addons.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/gallickgunner/ImGui-Addons)

# ImGui-Addons
Addon widgets for GUI library Dear ImGui.

## File Dialog
A simple cross-platform file dialog that uses [dirent](https://github.com/tronkko/dirent) interface for reading directories and files. It's present as a standard header file in Unix based systems afaik and is also contained in some compilers like MinGW but I have decided to use Toni Rönkkö's ported version so atleast the code remains compiler independent. Both Open and Save file dialogs are supported. **C++11 is required**.

Code uses ported `dirent.h` provided by Toni on Windows and on UNIX code uses standard `dirent.h` header, but unfortunately the code hasn't been checked extensively on UNIX based systems especially MacOS. So if someone finds problems on other platforms do tell me or submit a pull request. Also I don't think the code will work with Unicode paths containing language specific or other special characters as I blatantly use normal `char*` and `std::string` everywhere. The ported `dirent.h` for Windows uses `wcstombs` function to convert widechars to multibyte sequences but according to the docs this also fails if a wide character that doesnt' correspond to a valid Mulitbyte char is encountered. Anyways Not an expert at this topic so you may find errors if your paths contain special characters outside the normal 0-255 range.

Thanks to [@Sandy](https://github.com/bwrsandman), the code was tested on linux and runs fine except except that double clicks don't work all the time. This might be due to problems in ImGui itself or a problem on a specific computer only. So if anybody else encounters any issues do tell me.

### Usage
Copy all the necessary ImGui files in one folder and include it's path in your IDE. Also include the path to `Dirent` folder so `dirent.h` is accessible as `Dirent/dirent.h`. Now include `ImGuiFileBrowser.h` and use it like this..
```
..
imgui_addons::ImGuiFileBrowser file_dialog; // As a class member or globally

// Now inside any function
void showMainMenu()
{
    bool open = false, save = false;
    if(ImGui::BeginMainMenuBar())
    {
        if (ImGui::BeginMenu("Menu"))
        {
            if (ImGui::MenuItem("Open", NULL))
                open = true;
        if (ImGui::MenuItem("Save", NULL))
                save = true;
            
        ImGui::EndMenu();
        }
        ImGui::EndMainMenuBar();
    }
    
    //Remember the name to ImGui::OpenPopup() and showFileDialog() must be same...
    if(open)
        ImGui::OpenPopup("Open File");
    if(save)
        ImGui::OpenPopup("Save File");
        
    /* Optional third parameter. Support opening only compressed rar/zip files. 
     * Opening any other file will show error, return false and won't close the dialog.
     */
    if(file_dialog.showFileDialog("Open File", imgui_addons::ImGuiFileBrowser::DialogMode::OPEN, ImVec2(700, 310), ".rar,.zip,.7z"))
    {
        std::cout << file_dialog.selected_fn << std::endl;      // The name of the selected file or directory in case of Select Directory dialog mode
        std::cout << file_dialog.selected_path << std::endl;    // The absolute path to the selected file
    }
    if(file_dialog.showFileDialog("Save File", imgui_addons::ImGuiFileBrowser::DialogMode::SAVE, ImVec2(700, 310), ".png,.jpg,.bmp"))
    {
        std::cout << file_dialog.selected_fn << std::endl;      // The name of the selected file or directory in case of Select Directory dialog mode
        std::cout << file_dialog.selected_path << std::endl;    // The absolute path to the selected file
        std::cout << file_dialog.ext << std::endl;              // Access ext separately (For SAVE mode)
        //Do writing of files based on extension here
    }
}
```
Note that the Save file dialog just stores whatever name the user types in `selected_fn` The user may try to save with a different extension than one already selected in the *extension box* This is upto the programmer, whether to use the extension selected in the UI or the one typed in the file name by the user. I've also added the modified `imgui_demo.cpp` to include the file dialog in the menu bar so you can check how it's working there. 

Enough chitchat, here's a gif in-action, click for full video (I hope you guys don't consider me a weeb after seeing the screensavers collection xD )

[![Demo](https://i.imgur.com/kNOeYme.gif)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cPyfgYFdiy0)

# Update

So the file dialog has been revamped to closely resemble the Windows file dialog. I've tried my best, and I'm happy with the results.  Some internal workings have changed so gonna highlight them here.

* 3 Different modes are supported currently. `OPEN` for opening files, `SAVE` for saving files an `SELECT` for selecting a directory.
* There is only a single function call now `showFileDialog()`. A `DialogMode` enum is exposed (with values defined above) publicly which allows switching between different modes.
* The selected file/folder name and the absolute path can be accessed separately through `selected_fn` and `selected_path` respectively.

Commit message:

1) Changed imgui include paths so that all imgui files are in a separate folder. 2) Made the Open/Save button to be the same width as the extension box.

README.md, after:


[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/gallickgunner/ImGui-Addons.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/gallickgunner/ImGui-Addons)

# ImGui-Addons
Addon widgets for GUI library Dear ImGui.

## File Dialog
A simple cross-platform file dialog that uses [dirent](https://github.com/tronkko/dirent) interface for reading directories and files. It's present as a standard header file in Unix based systems afaik and is also contained in some compilers like MinGW but I have decided to use Toni Rönkkö's ported version so atleast the code remains compiler independent. Both Open and Save file dialogs are supported. **C++11 is required**.

Code uses ported `dirent.h` provided by Toni on Windows and on UNIX code uses standard `dirent.h` header, but unfortunately the code hasn't been checked extensively on UNIX based systems especially MacOS. So if someone finds problems on other platforms do tell me or submit a pull request. Also I don't think the code will work with Unicode paths containing language specific or other special characters as I blatantly use normal `char*` and `std::string` everywhere. The ported `dirent.h` for Windows uses `wcstombs` function to convert widechars to multibyte sequences but according to the docs this also fails if a wide character that doesnt' correspond to a valid Mulitbyte char is encountered. Anyways Not an expert at this topic so you may find errors if your paths contain special characters outside the normal 0-255 range.

Thanks to [@Sandy](https://github.com/bwrsandman), the code was tested on linux and runs fine except except that double clicks don't work all the time. This might be due to problems in ImGui itself or a problem on a specific computer only. So if anybody else encounters any issues do tell me.

### Usage
Copy all the necessary ImGui files in a folder named `imgui` and include it's path in your IDE. These files must be accessible as `imgui/imgui.h` and so on. Also include the path to `Dirent` folder so `dirent.h` is accessible as `Dirent/dirent.h`. If you don't like these include paths, you can change how `ImGuiFileBrowser.h` and the corresponding cpp file accesses these yourself. Now include `ImGuiFileBrowser.h` and use it like this..
```
..
imgui_addons::ImGuiFileBrowser file_dialog; // As a class member or globally

// Now inside any function
void showMainMenu()
{
    bool open = false, save = false;
    if(ImGui::BeginMainMenuBar())
    {
        if (ImGui::BeginMenu("Menu"))
        {
            if (ImGui::MenuItem("Open", NULL))
                open = true;
        if (ImGui::MenuItem("Save", NULL))
                save = true;
            
        ImGui::EndMenu();
        }
        ImGui::EndMainMenuBar();
    }
    
    //Remember the name to ImGui::OpenPopup() and showFileDialog() must be same...
    if(open)
        ImGui::OpenPopup("Open File");
    if(save)
        ImGui::OpenPopup("Save File");
        
    /* Optional third parameter. Support opening only compressed rar/zip files. 
     * Opening any other file will show error, return false and won't close the dialog.
     */
    if(file_dialog.showFileDialog("Open File", imgui_addons::ImGuiFileBrowser::DialogMode::OPEN, ImVec2(700, 310), ".rar,.zip,.7z"))
    {
        std::cout << file_dialog.selected_fn << std::endl;      // The name of the selected file or directory in case of Select Directory dialog mode
        std::cout << file_dialog.selected_path << std::endl;    // The absolute path to the selected file
    }
    if(file_dialog.showFileDialog("Save File", imgui_addons::ImGuiFileBrowser::DialogMode::SAVE, ImVec2(700, 310), ".png,.jpg,.bmp"))
    {
        std::cout << file_dialog.selected_fn << std::endl;      // The name of the selected file or directory in case of Select Directory dialog mode
        std::cout << file_dialog.selected_path << std::endl;    // The absolute path to the selected file
        std::cout << file_dialog.ext << std::endl;              // Access ext separately (For SAVE mode)
        //Do writing of files based on extension here
    }
}
```
Note that the Save file dialog just stores whatever name the user types in `selected_fn` The user may try to save with a different extension than one already selected in the *extension box* This is upto the programmer, whether to use the extension selected in the UI or the one typed in the file name by the user. I've also added the modified `imgui_demo.cpp` to include the file dialog in the menu bar so you can check how it's working there. 

Enough chitchat, here's a gif in-action, click for full video (I hope you guys don't consider me a weeb after seeing the screensavers collection xD )

[![Demo](https://i.imgur.com/kNOeYme.gif)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cPyfgYFdiy0)

# Update

So the file dialog has been revamped to closely resemble the Windows file dialog. I've tried my best, and I'm happy with the results.  Some internal workings have changed so gonna highlight them here.

* 3 Different modes are supported currently. `OPEN` for opening files, `SAVE` for saving files an `SELECT` for selecting a directory.
* There is only a single function call now `showFileDialog()`. A `DialogMode` enum is exposed (with values defined above) publicly which allows switching between different modes.
* The selected file/folder name and the absolute path can be accessed separately through `selected_fn` and `selected_path` respectively.
